h1. fusion-tables

This gem lets you easily interact with Google Fusion Tables from your Ruby application. Here is a "live visualisation of london bike hire availability":http://tables.googlelabs.com/DataSource?snapid=78314 and some "example maps and charts":http://www.tokumine.com/2010/08/10/fusion-tables-gem/.

h2. Gem Dependencies

* gdata_19 >= 1.1.2

h2. Installation

bc. gem install fusion_tables

h2. Rubies

Tested on:

* 1.8.7
* 1.9.2-p0

h2. To Use

bc. require 'fusion_tables'

or in Rails 2.3.x

bc. config.gem 'fusion_tables'

h2. API examples
 
"Twitter example":http://github.com/tokumine/fusion-tables/blob/master/examples/compare_tweets.rb
"Boris bike example":http://github.com/tokumine/fusion-tables/blob/master/examples/boris_bikes.rb 
"Tests":http://github.com/tokumine/fusion-tables/tree/master/test/. 

Here is a brief rundown:

<pre><code># Connect to service	
@ft = GData::Client::FusionTables.new      
@ft.clientlogin(username, password)

# Browse existing tables
@ft.show_tables
 # => [table_1, table_2] 

# Getting table id suitable for using with google maps (see more below)
table_1.id #=> 42342 (the table's google id)

# Count data
table_1.count #=> 1

# Select data
table_1.select 
 #=> data

# Select data with conditions
table_1.select "name", "WHERE x=n"
 #=> data

# Select ROWIDs
row_ids = table_1.select "ROWID"

# Drop tables
@ft.drop table_1.id                    # table id
@ft.drop [table_1.id, table_2.id]     # arrays of table ids
@ft.drop /yacht/                      # regex on table name

# Creating a table
cols = [{:name => "friend name",    :type => 'string' },
        {:name => "age",            :type => 'number' },
        {:name => "meeting time",   :type => 'datetime' },
        {:name => "where",          :type => 'location' }]

new_table = @ft.create_table "My upcoming meetings", cols

# Inserting rows (auto chunks every 500)
data = [{"friend name" 	=> "Eric Wimp", 
         "age"          => 25, 
         "meeting time" => Time.utc(2010,"aug",10,20,15,1),
         "where"        => "29 Acacia Road, Nuttytown"}]
new_table.insert data

# Delete row
new_table.delete row_id
</code></pre>

h2. Fusion Tables secret Geospatial Sauce

*"Geolocated Tweets example":http://tables.googlelabs.com/DataSource?snapid=73106*

Fusion Tables is a labs product from Google. You can "read more here":http://tables.googlelabs.com/, but the key thing is that it gives you *access to the google tile mill for fast generation of google map layers across large datasets* 

Fusion Tables supports the following geometry types:

* lat/long
* addresses (automatically geocodes them for you)
* KML (point, polyline, polygon, multipolygon)

h2. Integrate with google maps v3

Adding a fusion tables datalayer with many points/polygons to your v3 map is as simple as:

bc. layer = new google.maps.FusionTablesLayer(139529);

That's it

You can also refine the tiles by SQL, and can even do so dynamically:

<pre><code>
layer = new google.maps.FusionTablesLayer(198945, {
  query: "SELECT address FROM 198945 WHERE ridership > 5000"}
);
</code></pre>

Finally, fusion tables also lets you make Heatmaps

<pre><code>
layer = new google.maps.FusionTablesLayer(136705, {
  heatmap: true
});
</code></pre>

You can also export your data (filtered and geocoded) to KML. As an example, here are "all the Gasoline filling stations in the UK":http://tables.googlelabs.com/exporttable?query=select+col0%2Ccol1%2Ccol2%2Ccol3%2Ccol4%2Ccol5%2Ccol6%2Ccol12%2Ccol13%2Ccol14%2Ccol15%2Ccol16%2Ccol17%2Ccol18%2Ccol19%2Ccol20%2Ccol21+from+214045+&o=kmllink&g=col0

read "more here":http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/javascript/overlays.html#FusionTables

h2. A few words of warning...

# The API is still very young and *will probably change* 
# Currently you have to make a table public before you can display it on a map, unfortunately, this can only be done on the web interface. A suggested workaround is to put all your data in 1 big public table, and then query for the data you want to display based off a key/flag column

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h2. Copyright

Largely based on Tom Verbeure's work for MTBGuru: http://code.google.com/p/mtbguru-fusiontables/

Copyright (c) 2010 Tom Verbeure, Simon Tokumine. See LICENSE for details.




